docs/src/main/tut/primitive_types.md, before:

---
layout: tutorial
title: "Extracting primitive types"
section: tutorial
sort: 1
---
When working with regular expressions, it's fairly common to want to extract matches and turn them into useful types -
a depressingly recurrent scenario being to extract simple integers from strings.

Let's imagine that we get the following string and are interested in the integers between brackets: 

```tut:silent
val input = "lorem ipsum [123] dolor si amet [456] DO NOT MATCH THIS 789."
```

## First attempt

The first, naive approach would to simply match digits and turn matches into ints. This can be achieved with a trivial
regular expression:

```tut:silent
val digits = """\d+"""
```

In order to evaluate that, we'll first need to import the kantan.regex syntax:

```tut:silent
import kantan.regex.ops._
```

And we can now simply call the [`evalRegex`] method that enriches strings:

```tut
val results = input.evalRegex[Int](digits)

results.foreach(println _)
```

There are a few important things happening here. First, note the type parameter to [`evalRegex`]: this tells 
kantan.regex how to interpret each match. In our case, we want ints.

Second, `results` is an [`Iterator`]: regular expressions are evaluated lazily.

Lastly, even though we requested results of type [`Int`], we got [`Success[Int]`][`DecodeResult`] values instead. This 
makes regular expression evaluation safe: errors are wrapped in a failure value rather than turned into exceptions.
Should you not really care about safety, you can use [`unsafeEvalRegex`] and get raw ints.


## Improved solution using groups

Looking at the results however, we see that we didn't really achieve what we set out to do: `789` should not have been
matched, but was. In order to solve this, we need to change our regular expression to something more precise, such as:

```tut
val regex = """\[(\d+)\]"""
```

The problem here is that matches of this expression are not valid ints - they are surrounded by brackets. This
is where groups come in handy: we've declared our regular expression in such a way that for each match, the first group
will be the matched digits without the brackets. There's a version of [`evalRegex`] that takes the index of the group
from which to extract data:

```tut
input.evalRegex[Int](regex, 1).foreach(println _)
```

## Adding support to new types

In order to add support for types that aren't supported by default, you need only put an implicit value of
[`GroupDecoder`] in scope. Let’s do so, for example, for Joda [`DateTime`]:

```tut:silent
import kantan.regex._
import org.joda.time.DateTime
import org.joda.time.format.ISODateTimeFormat

implicit val jodaDateTime: GroupDecoder[DateTime] = {
  val format = ISODateTimeFormat.date()
  GroupDecoder[String].mapResult(s ⇒ DecodeResult(format.parseDateTime(s)))
}
```

Here's an example of a string with a valid ISO date:
 
```tut:silent
val input = "Nothing of note happened on 2009-01-06"
```

And we can now decode this easily:

```tut
input.evalRegex[DateTime]("""\d\d\d\d-\d\d-\d\d""").foreach(println _)
```


[`Regex`]:{{ site.baseUrl }}/api/#kantan.regex.Regex
[`evalRegex`]:{{ site.baseUrl }}/api/index.html#kantan.regex.ops$$StringOps@evalRegex[A](expr:String,group:Int)(implicitevidence$2:kantan.regex.GroupDecoder[A]):Iterator[kantan.regex.RegexResult[A]]
[`Iterator`]:http://www.scala-lang.org/api/current/index.html#scala.collection.Iterator
[`Int`]:http://www.scala-lang.org/api/current/index.html#scala.Int
[`DecodeResult`]:{{ site.baseUrl }}/api/index.html#kantan.regex.package@DecodeResult[A]=kantan.codecs.Result[kantan.regex.DecodeError,A]
[`MatchDecoder`]:{{ site.baseUrl }}/api/index.html#kantan.regex.package@MatchDecoder[A]=kantan.codecs.Decoder[kantan.regex.Match,A,kantan.regex.DecodeError,kantan.regex.codecs.type]
[`DateTime`]:http://www.joda.org/joda-time/apidocs/org/joda/time/DateTime.html
[`GroupDecoder`]:{{ site.baseUrl }}/api/index.html#kantan.regex.package@GroupDecoder[A]=kantan.codecs.Decoder[Option[String],A,kantan.regex.DecodeError,kantan.regex.codecs.type]
[`unsafeEvalRegex`]:{{ site.baseUrl }}/api/index.html#kantan.regex.ops$$StringOps@unsafeEvalRegex[A](expr:String)(implicitevidence$3:kantan.regex.MatchDecoder[A]):Iterator[A]

Commit message:

Add support for regular expression literals.

docs/src/main/tut/primitive_types.md, after:

---
layout: tutorial
title: "Extracting primitive types"
section: tutorial
sort: 1
---
When working with regular expressions, it's fairly common to want to extract matches and turn them into useful types -
a depressingly recurrent scenario being to extract simple integers from strings.

Let's imagine that we get the following string and are interested in the integers between brackets: 

```tut:silent
val input = "lorem ipsum [123] dolor si amet [456] DO NOT MATCH THIS 789."
```

## First attempt

The first, naive approach would to simply match digits and turn matches into ints. This can be achieved with a trivial
regular expression:

```tut:silent
import kantan.regex.literals._ 

val digits = rx"\d+"
```

Note the way the regular expression was declared: the `rx` bit lets the compiler know that the following string literal
is a regular expression and should be validated. Had our expression been invalid, it would have been detected at
compile time.


In order to evaluate that, we'll first need to import the kantan.regex syntax:

```tut:silent
import kantan.regex.ops._
```

And we can now simply call the [`evalRegex`] method that enriches strings:

```tut
val results = input.evalRegex[Int](digits)

results.foreach(println _)
```

There are a few important things happening here. First, note the type parameter to [`evalRegex`]: this tells 
kantan.regex how to interpret each match. In our case, we want ints.

Second, `results` is an [`Iterator`]: regular expressions are evaluated lazily.

Lastly, even though we requested results of type [`Int`], we got [`Success[Int]`][`DecodeResult`] values instead. This 
makes regular expression evaluation safe: errors are wrapped in a failure value rather than turned into exceptions.
Should you not really care about safety, you can use [`unsafeEvalRegex`] and get raw ints.


## Improved solution using groups

Looking at the results however, we see that we didn't really achieve what we set out to do: `789` should not have been
matched, but was. In order to solve this, we need to change our regular expression to something more precise, such as:

```tut
val regex = rx"\[(\d+)\]"
```

The problem here is that matches of this expression are not valid ints - they are surrounded by brackets. This
is where groups come in handy: we've declared our regular expression in such a way that for each match, the first group
will be the matched digits without the brackets. There's a version of [`evalRegex`] that takes the index of the group
from which to extract data:

```tut
input.evalRegex[Int](regex, 1).foreach(println _)
```

## Adding support to new types

In order to add support for types that aren't supported by default, you need only put an implicit value of
[`GroupDecoder`] in scope. Let’s do so, for example, for Joda [`DateTime`]:

```tut:silent
import kantan.regex._
import org.joda.time.DateTime
import org.joda.time.format.ISODateTimeFormat

implicit val jodaDateTime: GroupDecoder[DateTime] = {
  val format = ISODateTimeFormat.date()
  GroupDecoder[String].mapResult(s ⇒ DecodeResult(format.parseDateTime(s)))
}
```

Here's an example of a string with a valid ISO date:
 
```tut:silent
val input = "Nothing of note happened on 2009-01-06"
```

And we can now decode this easily:

```tut
input.evalRegex[DateTime](rx"\d\d\d\d-\d\d-\d\d").foreach(println _)
```


[`Regex`]:{{ site.baseUrl }}/api/#kantan.regex.Regex
[`evalRegex`]:{{ site.baseUrl }}/api/index.html#kantan.regex.ops$$StringOps@evalRegex[A](expr:String,group:Int)(implicitevidence$2:kantan.regex.GroupDecoder[A]):Iterator[kantan.regex.RegexResult[A]]
[`Iterator`]:http://www.scala-lang.org/api/current/index.html#scala.collection.Iterator
[`Int`]:http://www.scala-lang.org/api/current/index.html#scala.Int
[`DecodeResult`]:{{ site.baseUrl }}/api/index.html#kantan.regex.package@DecodeResult[A]=kantan.codecs.Result[kantan.regex.DecodeError,A]
[`MatchDecoder`]:{{ site.baseUrl }}/api/index.html#kantan.regex.package@MatchDecoder[A]=kantan.codecs.Decoder[kantan.regex.Match,A,kantan.regex.DecodeError,kantan.regex.codecs.type]
[`DateTime`]:http://www.joda.org/joda-time/apidocs/org/joda/time/DateTime.html
[`GroupDecoder`]:{{ site.baseUrl }}/api/index.html#kantan.regex.package@GroupDecoder[A]=kantan.codecs.Decoder[Option[String],A,kantan.regex.DecodeError,kantan.regex.codecs.type]
[`unsafeEvalRegex`]:{{ site.baseUrl }}/api/index.html#kantan.regex.ops$$StringOps@unsafeEvalRegex[A](expr:String)(implicitevidence$3:kantan.regex.MatchDecoder[A]):Iterator[A]
